# RULE-BASED-PARKING-SYSTEM USING-IOT

In  recent  times  the  number  of vehicles  are  consistently  rising  and  parking  space  is  becoming  a  major  issue  in urban and semi urban cities so there is needs to design a parking system which will reduce manual work as well reduce the problem of vehicle parking on streets. In this work wepropose the  concept of smart vehicle parking system. As we see in the modern world everything is being atomized, here we will deploy an IOT based system which is used to sense the presence & movement of vehicle. We are prototyping a parking system which has 10 slots. This system assigns a slot to the owner. Owner has to park the vehicle in allotted system but when allotted a far slot i.e. slot 9, 10 for a short time of stay makes the system inconvenient to use. Hence we are using A Rule-based Service Customization Strategy for parking system in which a system is going to record your stay for some days and according to that it will allot a slot to the vehicle owner.If a person park his/her vehicle for short period say for 20-30 mins, slot 1 is allotted to him, if in between 30-60 minutes slot 2 is allotted similarly slot 3-10 are allotted.  The  system  uses  Raspberry  Pi  which  is  interfaced  to  the  RFID  reader  and  IR  sensor  and  connected  to webpage via its inbuilt Wi-Fi. Every user has given a RFID tag at the time of registration whose no indicates their details. IR sensor is used for detecting empty and filled slots.

Published Paper on International Engineering Journal For Research & Development Vol.4 - http://www.iejrd.com/index.php/%20/article/view/1697/1536
